So, a couple examples here.
On the left, not a function, same input,
getting different output there.
Anybody know what, is it total,
deterministic, side effects?
Looks like it's not deterministic, because
the same value gets different outputs.
And on the right, it is a function,
same values, same outputs.
Or same input, same output.
This one's fun.
[LAUGH] So we're gonna turn title into
a URL friendly slug on the left, but
it just throws an error in your face.
So, you could debate whether that's a side
effect, or that means it's not a total, or
whatever else.
We're just saying, hey, if you end up
with the URL that's less than 1, and
where just gonna blow up.
And on the right, even though it's got
a Promise, and it's doing all this stuff,
and it still has an error in there,
we're not throwing the error,
we're returning it as a value.
And that's perfectly acceptable.
We're saying, this function returns
a Promise, that returns either an error or
the URL.
Whereas the other one promised a nice URL,
and then it blew up with an error.
So that violates the mathematicalness
of the function.
And this last one,
it's kind of a fun example.
So, sign up on the left, just, devil may
care, saves the user into a database.
And then we welcome the user in one way or
another.
We don't even know what it's doing.
Can anybody even guess
what's happening there?
It's very side effecty.
And then on the right, we actually
return a function that will go do that.
[LAUGH] So it's totally pure, if I give
it the same attributes every time,
I get the same function out as my output,
that will go do it.
And this whole kicking the side effect
down the road by returning a function,
is a lot of the work arounds we do to
keep everything nice and pure, and
composable within our app.
And then we kinda push
that under the collar,
[LAUGH] you have to deal
with the problems [LAUGH].
So, all right.
We're gonna play function or no function.
So, shout it out, is this a function?
Anyone, Hank?
[LAUGH]
>> No.
>> All right, it is not a function.
If I gave it the same user more than once,
I'm gonna get different outputs, right?
We're actually mutating the user's age.
So, bizarre way to catch their age for
the birthday function, but that's fine.
All right, how about this one,
is this a function?
>> Yes.
>> All right.
That's right, same output, same input.
And, no observable effects, and works for
every possible string, I imagine.
How about this one?
Anybody have an idea?
So innocent.
It's using snake case [LAUGH],
that disqualifies it immediately.
It's Python.
I don't know, anybody?
>> I'm gonna go with no.
>> It's not a function-.
>> It's doing an external call,
that's what I'm going for.
>> That's exactly right.
QuerySelector there is going to go out
into the world and try to find this thing.
Which, if I call it on a Tuesday at 5
o'clock it might work, and then Wednesday
at 1 o'clock it doesn't work, different
outputs, the same header_selector.
So that will not work.
Also, this one,
I think there's two more of these.
[SOUND] [LAUGH] All right,
anyone got an idea on this?
Pure or impure?
Is it a function or not a function?
>> Impure.
>> Impure, cuz of the location search.
>> That's right.
So, again, different output.
If the location search changes,
this function, and
you can notice there's no argument.
[LAUGH] So it's pretty.
In fact, if I just made location
search the argument, this would be
perfectly functional, this would be
a function if I just passed in the search.
>> So that's something to think about
when you're creating functions is,
is this function reliable?
Or am I just doing things?
Am I making a mathematical function or
not?
Here we have a parseQueryString.
This one's a trick line, anybody guess?
We got vars, we got for loops [LAUGH],
it is indeed a function.
You don't have to read it,
I'll just tell you [LAUGH].
Yeah, there's no, even if, look,
we're mutating this thing within here.
But that's totally fine,
the function itself within the boundaries
of parseQueryString will always give you
the same output with the same input.
You got a question?
>> Are we leading into the closure
being part of the definition?
Whether your function is or
isn't function?
>> That's a really good,
that's a good question.
Let me hop over to this for a second.
I just kind of mentioned this.
So, if I do, my App,
and it takes whatever,
jQuery, or whatever else.
And then, we're defining
functions in here like, doThings.
And, what's happening here is,
and we'll return, doThings.
All right, JQuery,
the time of this function's
definition can never change, right?
So, even though we're in a closure,
it's very much like an object, and
I could up here technically say,
jQuery is null [LAUGH], and
that would break everybody inside me.
We're gonna, fast and loosely reasoning
is morally correct, is the slogan here.
Just define it, in terms of,
in this environment can my things change?
Do I have changing variables, will this
give me a different output for input?
If it isn't likely, if that's not
gonna be a case, then it's a function,
don't worry about it [LAUGH].
That was a great question, a lot of
people have that, and they're like, what?
I think before we had an example
where we say something like,
the age limit is 18, and
then we have a function that uses it.
And then we change it to 21 later
in the future, or something.
I mean, again, just use your judgment,
if that never changes at the function,
if it does, it's not.
And you could pass it in, but
I don't want you to have to jump
through hoops that are unnecessary.